# A deep attention network for predicting amino acid signals in the formation of alpha-helices

This rep contains the code to reproduce the experiments described in the paper "A deep attention network for predicting amino acid signals in the formation of alpha-helices".

# Requirements

This project is entirely build with Python (version>=3.3). The required Python modules are:

* Pandas
* Numpy
* Scikit-learn
* Keras
* Tensorflow
* Gensim
* Matplotlib
* Os
* Sys

# Project Structure

The three main protein classes have been downloaded (mainly alpha, mainly beta, and alpha beta proteins) from the CATH Database (http://www.cathdb.info/browse/tree). The extraction of sequences and secondary structure information from every PDB entry was generated by the Kabsch and Sander DSSP algorithm (https://swift.cmbi.ru.nl/gv/dssp/DSSP_3.html).
From the DSSP output, we were able to extract all the helices present in proteins. To ensure that each helix includes at least two turns, helices shorter than eight residues were discarded. Since signals that trigger the helix formation can also be located outside the helix sequence itself, we analyzed the first and the last four aminoacids inside the helix, taking into account also two or three amino acids before and after each helix. We labeled the sequences with two or three external residues with the suffix 2H or 3H, respectively. **Data** folder contains **3H.csv** and **2H.csv** files.

**Residue_propensity.py** evaluate the residue propensity value for each amino acid in the selected positions.

the 3H. and 7767 non-helix sequences, collected from the three main protein classes

**Word2Vec_Encoding.py** contains an implementation of the Word2Vec algorithm (https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/models/word2vec.html)

**One-Hot-Encoding.py** contains an implementation of the Word2Vec algorithm (https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/models/word2vec.html)

**3H.csv** and **Non-Helices.csv** files contains the data used to compare three ML approaches, which rely only on sequence data, equipped with attention modules(), to decide if a short fixed length amino acid sequence represents or not an alpha-helix.

